---
title: "SCIOPS 01.21: Weird Sun"
description: "Today, Earth's only moon will intersect the path that light takes to reach us from our medium-size yellow sun"
layout: post
toc: false
comments: false
search_exclude: false
categories: [sciops]
---


 SCIOPS 01.21: Weird Sun
=========================


  

Today, Earth's only moon will intersect the path that light takes to reach us from our medium-size yellow sun. For some reason, the sun is about 400 times bigger than the moon,
*and also ~400x further away!*
So on our planet, unlike all the other planets in our system, the moon will perfectly cover the sun, blocking it from view.
  

  

I'm not going to speculate on the perfect tailoring of the Moon. I'm not going to rant about the depth of the craters, or the curious fact that is composition is nothing like that of Earth's geology. I'm definitely not going to speculate on the massive amount of He3 in moon rock and its usefulness in nuclear fusion power.
  

  

No, today is a Sun day. A Weird Sun day.
  

  

Weird Sun Twitter is a phenomenon that only the Internet could have produced. It's a meme epidemic that's fun and non-deadly for once. First one's free:

 Lifehack: replace all sentients with behaviorally and cognitively identical copies, except lacking qualia for pain




 — Effect Of Cause (@EffectOfCause)

[August 18, 2017](https://twitter.com/EffectOfCause/status/898385376728961024)
  

  

Weird Sun accounts follow a consistent pattern of naming -- "[X] of [Y]" and "[ZZZ], THIS" bios. And their tweets share a world, an alternate Twitter where noun phrases dominate and obscurity beats legibility.
  

  

@Grognor, the user who compiled the first list of Weird Suns, has also made inquiries into their background. Learn the history, as we know it, of Weird Sun Twitter
[here](http://grognor.blogspot.com/2017/03/a-history-of-weird-sun-twitter.html)
.
  

  

If you want more, check out Grognor's
[list](https://twitter.com/grognor/lists/weird-sun-twitter/)
.
  

  

The sky dims. @CrescentOfSun is visible here in Seattle. I'm out.
  

  

Thanks for reading,
  

Max
  

